Companies and small have never
taken into account the assessment.
And if you talk to your friends or people
you know who are entrepreneurs,
but from a non-startup environment, they
don't usually think about how much
their company is worth.
Think about how much you earn a year, etc.,
or how much you're going to grow.
But not in the assessment.
In our world, however, we
talk about valuation every day.
every day.
It is a word that always comes out.
Why is?
I would say for two reasons.
One, because the goal of many people
is to sell the company.
That is, they are not thinking only about
what they earn each year but about success,
how much money they are going to sell
their company.
And two, because when you need to
finance yourself with private capital,
for the investor the valuation is very
important.
And that's why I think
it's very important that our
students understand how this
works in companies of this
type.
The first thing I would like you to
explain to us is from what mechanisms,
and I will not talk about valuation
methods because that is, from
what mechanisms the price
is fixed.
It is worth, obviously, as
Borja advanced, the values of
traditional companies
do not apply in the startup
world.
And they do not apply in the startup
world first because they are
valuation methods that are based
on billing, on cash flow
discounts.
And in startups in many cases,
the turnover is not one of the
main metrics and the scalability
or exponentiality that
the business can come to have
is valued.
The expectations, right?
Exactly, that is, at the end of the
day what is valued is, hear, how
far this will grow and how much
we will be able to sell it.
Then, another peculiarity
of startups is that if I have a
traditional business and want
to finance it, then I ask for a
loan from a bank, for example,
but that bank will not ask me
for equity in exchange for money.
But in the world of startups,
selling pieces of our percentage
of the company is something
very common.
So, that valuation is something
we must always have in mind
and that we must know.
In some cases, and this would be
a bad practice, sometimes we get
to matter more valuation than
billing and what sometimes leads
us to behaviors a bit short-placist.
That is, that is true, there are
many managers, CEOs of startups, if they
only think about the valuation they
can end up addicting to the
management of the company, why?
And that is very unhealthy.
and exact.
Because in the end you have
to think about creating value
for your customers, that the
company creates value for your
customers internally, etc.
Investor value creation is
valuation, as it is important
too, but it must be a consequence
of value creation
in the market.
If there are managers who think
only about inflating that
valuation, but are neglecting the
creation of value to the customer,
because that is untenable.
It is not sustainable.
When you do things well and
have a good product that sells
alone and a great market, rating
will always accompany.
You will get a good assessment that
will accompany you.
Many people ask, how do I calculate my assessment?
I compare myself to other startups, there
is some table, there is some way.
It is more than a deductive process, it
is an inductive process.
In the end the way to calculate
the valuation is how much money
I need at this stage, depending on
the stage in which I am, what
we saw in two previous
classes, why I need the money,
how much money I need and what
percentage of my business I am willing
to give to an investor at
this time.
And that's what will lead us to calculate
the valuation that we will then
cross with also the expectations
of investors.
As in any market, there is supply
and demand.
What happens is that the offer, as
you explain well, the offer is, I
am the owner of the company and
in this first phase I need 100,
000 euros.
And I'm willing to share 20%
of my company, for example.
So my company has to be worth
half a million euros.
But of course, if you go out to the
market and that's stupid, because
someone has to buy it to you, someone
has to believe you.
Then the investor will make his calculations
as well.
And in the balance it is like
any, if you want to sell a house
of 90 square meters for five
million euros, when it doesn'
t work, because there will
be no buyer.
And we're back to what we
explained in previous classes that
investors have expectations of
making one in 10 or one in 20
of their investment.
So for them the money, the valuation
to which they enter a company is
very important because on that basis
they will calculate how much
this company can be sold
or even how much it can increase
the valuation.
Because another thing that is sometimes
given is that investors who enter
early stages, in upper rounds,
instead of accompanying themselves
can go out and sell their
stocks, which would be another option.
At the end of the day, the investor
will also have to pay the bills.
Then you can need 200,000 euros now
and be willing to give a 5%, but
as Borja said, if there is no
fit in the market, there are
no investors who believe that
they can get enough profitability
to that percentage,
you will not sell it.
To explain it in such a very simple
way, it could be the mechanism of
fixing the price or the final valuation
to which the investor ends up
entering that would be something
like the founders of the startup
determine how much they need.
They determine the percentage
that they are willing to share.
That is the supply and then comes the
demand and it is the investor and says,
you have valued your company in
half a million euros.
I think this can be valid for a reasonable
period of time, that is, in a
few years, because he has no intention
of being with you all his
life.
I think this can be worth 10 times
more than this company that has
just been born, for example, that
you have valued it in half a million
euros can end up worth 5 million.
If that is reasonable for the investor,
you will come to an agreement
with him.
Basically is.
That is.
Then within the assessment there
would be four tips that can
help us a little to make these
messes between supply and demand
with a little sense.
One of the biggest mistakes
you can make is not getting
enough money.
That is, sometimes there is
a type of entrepreneur that is
called Gollum and Gollum is the
one who clings to his percentage
of no, no, I am that I want to
have 80 or 90 percent of my
company and I am not willing
to give up.
And here's a question that's
worth asking, what's worth more?
90% of something worth 100,000
euros or 20% of something worth 20 million.
So, taking that into account and also
taking into account that the partners'
pact that will be seen in other
classes, in a startup, having or
not having the majority of shares
does not determine the freedom you
will have of management.
Freedom of management is marked
by a partnership pact in which
you have the same freedoms
when you have 90% of your company
than when you have 10%.
So, clinging to the percentages
is sometimes a bit absurd.
The first mistake is not investing enough.
In many cases motivated, as you said,
by that obsession with accaparing
or keeping the largest percentage
of equity possible.
That, eye, the more equity you have,
the better.
But it is that you have to
be realistic and you have to start
first from what you need to grow
and starting from that, that money,
like what you have explained,
starting from the amount
you need to make your business
model end up having meaning,
because to give up the percentage...
Within that, give as little percentage
as possible, but it is that you
have to square the investor.
and exact.
Another mistake you can make,
which is also quite common,
is raising too much money.
It is a advice that gives a lot
of raising only the money you
need, but it is also true that
when one is in the process of raising
a round of funding, if
we have a project that is
very attractive, which wastes
a lot of interest among investors,
you can give the case that
suddenly they offer us more
money than we had thought
at first.
And in those circumstances, knowing
how to say no, I only need 200,
000 or 250,000 euros to get
the next goal when they are offering
you more, it is difficult because
then there is the adage of
more worth a bird in hand that
I feel flying.
If I get it, I'll stay
there and see in a year.
This type of attitude, which is very
complicated when you see yourself inside
them, of saying no, can penalize
you for a future because the
sooner you take the money, the
less valuations you are taking it.
The ideal thing would be to catch
the least money possible at
low ratings, quickly demonstrate
with that money the next steps
and validate your idea, go catch
money but always the least
possible to demonstrate the next step.
This fits well with what we have seen
in several classes, which is that you
have to take the right steps and you
do not have to jump.
When we talked about the phases of
business growth, if you have not
reached product market fit or if you
have not validated your growth channels,
distribution, if you have not
validated where you can grow and
suddenly you are injected 5 million,
we when we have been in similar
circumstances in which you ask
how much money you need,
there is a question that I think
is very useful and that
you have to do.
If I had 5 million euros
in my account today,
would you know what I
would spend these 5 million
euros in an optimal
way?
If you haven't validated the channels,
it's that those 5 million don't
know what to do with them and then
what you start doing is barbarism.
It is, and that is the key.
You said it is best to spend
it.
In the end, lack of money wakes
up creativity and if I don't have
money I'll look for the most
efficient ways to validate things,
the fastest and most effective ways
and when we have a lot of money
we relax, we start spending
money on superfluous things
and it's easier that we
lose focus.
That's, but when things are done
well, it's all very easy, that is,
when you have taken the steps
and you know you can grow in a certain
market because you validated it,
at that moment you get those
5 million euros injected, I'm talking
about fictitious amounts,
you're investing those 5 million
and you're wishing to be invested
because the next day you
know what to do with them.
And you know what profit they will
generate, you know what they will
return you more or less because you have
validated it, but if those 5 million
invest you before, because you don'
t know what to do with it, change
the office furniture, I don't know
what you do, but in the end you waste it.
Basically is.
Then two other tips, now we gave
two tips of what happens if I
raise very little money or if I
raise a lot of money, the
following would be related to the
valuation.
Why is one of the mistakes that
can be made to raise money at
very low valuations?
As we will see later when we talk
about dilution, if I raise money
to very low valuations, I am leaving
little space for more money,
more funding to enter and I come
as an entrepreneur to the exit of
the company or to the exit of the
stock market with a percentage
that is able to keep
me motivated.
Basically you are losing too much
of your business and as you
will have to continue funding,
there will be a day when
you don't spend anything.
It is no longer attractive to investors.
It may seem counterproductive, counterintuitive,
but the investor wants to buy
as cheaply as possible to
a point, because the investor
is also interested in keeping
yourself motivated.
And then another mistake that
can be made is raising money
at too high valuations.
And this, although it may seem like a lie,
is a fairly common mistake.
Sometimes if I get to raise
money to too high valuations,
along with those valuations,
expectations also come.
And when these expectations are
too high and not met, you're
committing yourself to the next
round, because if you don't meet
those expectations, raising
the next money you need to
survive can become almost
impossible.
I think that's not a problem
if you don't need more money.
If you do not need more money, you
will not need more money, that
you can not know this as a certain
science, but if you will not
need more, the higher the rating,
the more my company was
worth, I dilute less,
etc., all happy.
But of course, if you will have to do
another round in two years, because
for the next milestone you need
another X million and you have over-
sold your project, and two years
later you are not able to prove that
you have created value during
those two years, because you see yourself
in a very complex situation.
Very complex, because not only does
not house the new valuation you
have, which is the post-evaluation
of the previous plus a little bit,
with the results you have, but
to convince the board of
management you already have, the
investors you already have, who
have to lose value on the paper
and make a round to a lower valuation
than they entered two years
ago, is almost impossible.
You have seen yourself in that situation.
I will tell you.